Every time there was a sale, I'd call him up.
Let's start again.
It's still the letter of the flannable collection.
It's gone out of it with Kenyon's death, really.
Because we became very friendly, rivals.
In fact, we weren't rivals anymore.
If he wanted something, I'd let him have it.
And the same was true of me.
And we brought some items together.
One of our little stories, I'll show it to you.
I have a Diffin's manuscript.
here's a complete nine-page manuscript of one of dickens's short stories and this came up i'm holding it because you know that this is part of this jewel for me you know as i hold these things and it's uh well this came up at the uh at the joy sale and
I had bought Murders in the Room, Warren.
Kenyon was saving his money to buy a Trollope Management, and he was prepared to pay $35,000 for the Trollope Management.
Well, as you know, auctions come up alphabetically, so Kenyon didn't bid on anything before the Trollope.
And when the Trollope came up, he didn't get it.
So I went to Kenyon afterwards, and I said, Kenyon, you know, you didn't get anything, and maybe we should
talked to some of the dealers that bought things, and maybe we could find something we could buy.
So we talked to Hamelenbacher, who had bought this, and they bought it for, I don't know what they bought it for, but they didn't have a client, and they wanted $18,000 for it.
So Kenyon and I bought it together, and I went to Hamelenbacher, and I said, we're going to buy it for $18,000, and I will send you a check for $9,000, and Kenyon will send you a check for $9,000.
And she patted, and she said, oh, oh dear, she said, it's one of the only Dickens manuscript that's complete in itself.
She said, you're not going to break it out.
And I said, we're not going to break it out.
I said, he has custody, and I have visitation rights.
You know what I love?
This has canyons, rope plates.
as your book plate, and then this is the provenance here.
Whose book plate is that?
Well, that's probably from the Susan A. Say, I'm not sure who that is.
Let's see.
No, this is Bixby.
This is Bixby.
Wasn't that Joyce?
No, this was, well, yeah, this was in the Joyce sale, but they didn't.
But see, it is a complete dimension.
You're building a Dickens manuscript.
So Bill, so Kenyon, was a deal with that one.
That's pretty expensive, right?
Now, you've got the goose pimples, right?
It happens.
Well, Kenyon and I, after that, bought other things together, and when he died, of course, we got him all back, and we knew he would go back.
It was interesting, because we had given him little items of Dickens for birthdays and whatnot, and he kept meticulous things.
a record of every book he had, what he paid, what he bought it, what other things had sold for his, anything that we had given him.
He wrote in that book, we didn't know this until after his death, that it belonged in the South Library.
So the building, he couldn't bear the harvest of all these taxes.
So he would take these skits and write in there that they were just on loan from the South Library.
So you actually, it's like some people might go fishing together.
You'd collect them together.
Oh yeah, we've always compared notes.
And I always felt relieved when he didn't want something I did because I felt so obligated to let him have it if he wanted it.
So there was no competition at all?
Not after we knew each other.
No.
Well, there was sometimes a little secret.
When this brought me out,
Wuthering Heights came up.
Bill was dying to have it.
And Kenyon was with us, and Bill was kind of holding back to see if Kenyon wanted the book, and he looked at it.
He said, you know, it's just such a lousy copy.
But here it was with all this.
The notes and everything in it.
So anyway.
Let's go over and look some things if you're ready to do that.
Sure.
Put this over here.
We'll start over here, but we haven't.
I'm going to put my pen away, too, because when I go near rare things... Okay.
Okay, we'll start here.
This is the single rare book I have.
And this is the four-timer library thing.
This is Alice.
Now, these are the people.
Her name is Harriet Borland, B-O-R-L-A-D.
She got it directly from the Forsheimer Library.
I got it after she did.
As you may know about this book, the distinguishing is the 65.
There's a new book out, I don't know if you've seen it, called The Consensus, that Justin Triller put out, and it tells where every copy is.
Maybe if Connie were on this side of you and me, she could see it at the same time.
But this copy belonged to, I never know how to pronounce your name, one of the little girls he photographed, and I have pictures of you.
Alice Liddell?
No.
She's Alice.
Kitchen, X-I-E Kitchen.
She was one of his favorite photographic models, and I have some pictures of her that he took.
This was her book.
He had given it to her.
And then when she died, it came on the market, and of course I don't have bought it.
This is a... This is the copy I bought at the same time.
I think this is the copy I bought at the same time, which is such a very good condition.
Yeah, it's a much better condition than that one.
And this has a letter.
My dear Edith.
Yes, from Lewis Carroll.
Lewis Carroll.
He signed Lewis Carroll as opposed to Dodgson.
He signed differently.
I one time had a chance to buy one copy where he signed it both ways and sent a copy.
And I didn't buy it.
But see, now this is... Oh, look at the condition of that.
This is great condition.
No clocks on this one.
Now see, this is the 66.
This is the one that came out after that one.
And then this one, which is a looking glass.
This is the original drawing by Tenille.
This was, I don't know how you say Tenille or Tenille,
But Tennille, he put that drawing in, I think.
Is that a laid-in drawing?
No, he drew it.
It's an original.
Oh, that's an original drawing.
Let's say for the sake of what we have here, that this is through the looking glass with an original pencil drawing by Tennille on the title page and also with a Christmas inscription.
And that is duplicated on page 184.
Wow.
Dickens.
We'll stay with Dickens for a minute.
He just looked at the management of the best authority.
This is a very amusing article in that Dickens says in all of his life, every time he gets into an argument, someone says, I have it on the best authority, that so-and-so is true.
And he says, I've never met the best authority.
Who is this fellow named the best authority?
That's what that's all about.
This is a terrific item.
This was Kenyon's.
And it was one of the highlights of the Susan A. Sale.
How do we spell that?
I'll show you.
I think it may have a book fight in it.
If it isn't, I've got it around here somewhere.
Was this one of the items that the Kenyan left to you?
Yes.
There's the duel.
I might have to take a picture of the two books.
Here's the one.
He was a counter.
Oh, okay.
It is important.
That's where you met.
That's how you met.
Yeah.
Alain, A-L-A-I-N.
Right.
And that is D-E-N.
D-E, right.
S-U-Z.
A-N-N-E-T.
Maybe the foremost Dickens' collection is French.
Here's what's his own copy of... This is Dickens' own copy of... And this, of course, was his American Publisher's technique.
And you see, this is...
Dickens inscribed it.
He always gave that little flair there, didn't he?
And he did his own adding of what he wanted to leave in and take out or emphasize as he gave his reading.
This is his own copy?
Yes, this is Dickens' own copy.
This is Dickens' own, let's say it, this is Dickens' own annotated copy of Mrs. Camp, I believe, right?
Yes.
From which he gave his readings.
He gave quite a few in Worcester, by the way.
Oh, dear.
This here.
This is great.
This is the earliest I mentioned, the earliest known description on the Christmas carol.
The earliest known.
And that is also from the...
This is the 17th of December, 1843.
Now, I think my impression he did, I have the records around here somewhere, he did about five or six copies, I think, on that date, but none before.
It's interesting also, you know, there's a big dispute about whether it should be yellow end papers or green end papers.
Every inscribed copy in the early, we're all on yellow end papers.
It seems to me if you have the earliest inscribed coffee, it's quite irrelevant.
Now, to show you the depth of some of them, I think, if you kind of turn around, these are all Christmas cards.
Oh, wow.
In various forms.
The 11th edition.
Most of them are, this is the 11th edition.
Some people consider very rare.
Most of them are first.
This one is, this is inscribed to
That's an inscribed copy.
What's this here?
Oh, this tells all about the Christmas carol.
This is the study of the Christmas carol.
This tells about the date that the first one was inscribed and so forth.
So these are all Christmas carols.
What have I got?
Did I take care of that?
Oh, this is a non-commercial traveler.
It's not a first edition.
But it is inscribed to George Eliot.
The Uncommercial Traveler.
Second edition right there.
You know, the whole concept of a first edition really is almost a 20th century... Well, I'm sure that, you know, he just gave it to her without... Without even thinking about it.
It didn't make any difference to him when it was the first or second, I'm sure.
You got that through a dealer or a sale?
That actually was also from, that came from John Fleming.
This is a page of manuscript from Pickwick Papers.
What happened with this?
In the Susan A. sale, there were 13 pages of Pickwick, and John Fleming sold as a unit.
John Fleming bought them.
and then split them up and sold them individually.
How do you feel about that?
Well, in a way, I think this page now, the last time this page sold, that auction went for about $20,000.
I understand, but don't you think that... So I could never afford to have the 13 pages.
As a collector, you... Well, and that wasn't complete.
And it wasn't complete anyway.
It wasn't complete to begin with.
That's the importance.
I think that's probably the point.
But it did permit me to...
to get something I would normally not be able to get.
This came from a cinching story, a personal story about this.
This belonged to a gentleman in Los Angeles named Paul Francis Webster, who was a lyricist.
And we visited his home once, only once, and I saw this in his home, never dreaming that I would someday own it.
Then Webster died.
Yeah, well, there's his book, Paul Fenton.
Yeah, and this sold in New York.
He had a wonderful collection.
I have his catalog.
Lots of wonderful collections, too.
Hans Christian Andersen, from his friend and admirer.
This is inscribed to Hans Christian Andersen in the Pickford Papers, Dickens.
Wow.
Did you get that at the sale, though?
I bought that at a sale, because the Webster sale was fairly recent.
Yeah, it wasn't too long ago, two years ago.
This is just such a rare book.
He sold that library, I believe.
Oh, Francis Webster, no.
No, his estate sold it.
Really?
Yeah.
He died.
That's correct.
Yeah, it's quite a, it's a very moving forward.
This, again, was Kenyon's copy.
See what condition of a very, very rare book.
It almost looks like you, you, you.
We did it from the same company.
What, what he, you see, our little secrets.
His has, if you look at it, a starling, a bird, in his.
Mine is in the shape of a television screen, without saying that.
Yeah, yeah.
Mine's in the shape of a television screen.
But we had them both done.
We're talking about the book plates here.
Okay.
Now, I have two copies of this.
My copy is, that's where I have the duplicates.
It's Kenyon's library duplicates of mine.
This copy is actually a little nicer than my copy.
You can see it's brighter.
Give me an idea of your time schedule.
Oh, I'm all right.
We're fine.
I just don't want to be imposing on any plans that you have.
When I fall asleep, you know, I just... Okay.
Move along.
No, no, no.
I mean, we're fine, but I don't want to feel that we're... One of the books I sold in regret is that I had... You sold a book.
I sold one book.
I had... Well, I've actually sold two.
I had a copy of the...
What was the book we sold?
Kelmscott Chaucer.
The Kelmscott Chaucer?
Well, why in the world would you sell a Kelmscott Chaucer?
I had a Kelmscott Chaucer.
In vellum.
Don't tell me it was in vellum.
It was in vellum, but it was in the pigskin binding.
The white pigskin binding.
You'd like to have that back, I'll bet.
I bought it for $10,000 and sold it for $20,000.
It didn't fit in with my literature.
You know, we're authors and stuff.
And I finally...
And it was such a big book, you know, to really look at.
But I sold it.
Anyway, I had a third, first edition of Great Expectations.
And it was kind of a beat-up, lousy copy.
And I had these two better copies.
So I sold it.
And I've been sorry ever since.
Because it has become such a rare book.
What is this?
Did we look at this?
Yes.
If we turn around, and we'll get back to anything you want to.
This is one of my favorite books.
This is also an inscribed copy.
Let me see what it is.
I think the copy itself is inscribed, too, but it has this letter in it, which I will read to you in a minute.
It's also inscribed from Charles Dickens.
Is that what his name is?
Dickens' own copy of David Copperfield presented to J-L-R-I-C-K-A-R-D-S, Rickards, with a presentation inscription.
He says, I wish to preserve between us some little outward and visible remembrance of your generous Mexican adventure, the adventure for which I was unconsciously responsible.
No one I know knows what that's all about.
And he goes on to say, will you do me the favor to accept my own copy of a book for which I have a particular affection, in the assurance that you will like it none the worse for coming from my own study shelves.
I beg you to accept it with my thanks and good wishes, Charles Dickens.
Dare I ask what you had to pay for this?
You may ask, and I can't answer it, because it came from Kenyon, and I don't remember what he paid for it.
But I would say, it's certainly because it came off of Dickens' shelf, and he says so, that it's a very valuable book.
Kenyon bought his books for the most part before they... Well, that's true.
Dickens really hasn't been on the top for a long time.
That must have been quite a moment for you when you actually put your book plate in the book.
Oh, yes, it was.
Next to his book plate.
I wonder if you could tell me a little bit about that.
That must have been a moment, actually.
It was a moment.
And not without some pluses and minuses.
You know, maybe in a way I didn't want to do it.
In a way I did want to do it.
But anyway.
But let's go on with me.
Away from Dickens, we'll come back to him.
You see, I have, again, Oliver Twist in parts, very rare.
but I have two copies, and I also have presentation copies.
Here's two presentations.
Here's to MacReady and Oliver Twist, and here's to William Harris and Ainsworth.
Have you had all these made?
No, some of them I have made, and some of them just came that way.
Moving on to another author, Poe.
Are you enjoying this, by the way?
Yeah, I do enjoy it, yeah.
This is Mike Tamerlane.
As you may know, for reasons that I don't know,
Somebody cut a V in two places on this book.
Some people guess that they did it to prevent anyone stealing it.
But as you can see, there's a little V before and here.
May I just... Well, the thing that probably makes it so rare...
Tamerlane.
Do you hear that tape?
That's the black tulip of the American Antiquarian Society doesn't own one of these.
It's a rare book.
The reasons are probably many.
One is that he didn't sell a copy of it that they know of, and two, it doesn't have his name on it.
So if you found this in the attic, poems by a Bostonian, you'd probably toss it out.
One, in fact, was found in Worcester.
Yes, one was found.
1827, he was a youngster.
Now, there are some poems in the back of... Ballarat and Tamaline and whatever that... other poems.
I have the manuscript on some of those.
I'll show you.
When you got this, did you take it home to California with you?
No.
I had to go through all the rigamarole.
I had to pay... shipping and insurance to ship it off.
$700.
Was it to ship it to insure it?
Then, of course, I had to pay California's tax on it.
Why?
Because I'm a Californian.
No, but you bought it in New York.
It doesn't work anymore.
You now have to pay the tax.
They've got you now.
They won't release it to you.
Unless you pay New York tax, which is more than California.
They won't release it to you until you show a form that you've paid the tax.
Six and a half, yeah.
So what started out at $150,000 ended up at $170,000.
So you had to do the 10% freemium and then everything else.
That's exciting.
This book...
Murders in the Rue Morgue is interesting because there's a mystery connected with it, which I'm trying to solve.
This has a, on the wrapper, it's the prose romances, Murders in the Rue Morgue and the Man that We Used Up, and the Philadelphia Publisher in 1843 was George B. Zeber, Z-I-E-B-E-R, and company.
No other copy has the Zebra publisher.
Most of them that are known, they're only, you know, five or six or seven or eight or nine, whatever they are, have either no wrappers at all or they have what they call the Graham wrapper.
This copy also has a couple of little editor's pencil marks in it, which Poe was known to do.
I'm not saying he did this copy.
What we do know is that George Zebra...
Poe wrote a letter to a publisher saying, I'm sending you some of my works through my agent, George Zebra.
So we know that Poe knew him, so that much is established.
We also know that Zebra published a lot of books.
There just isn't any proof that he published this one.
What's your guess, Taylor?
Randall.
Well, David Randall, who I'm sure you probably know that name.
David Randall, when told of this copy, wrote in his book,
which I have somewhat.
That dupt him large enough.
That this was a phony, not a real copy.
And when the George people decided to auction the book, they got a hold of David Randall and said, we don't want to auction the book until we know its authenticity.
Would you examine it?
And he did examine it.
And then he wrote an apology.
And he said, never again will I ever brand the book phony,
that I haven't examined.
He said, it's absolutely... Oh, he hasn't examined it?
He had never seen it.
That's not good.
He came up to the real book business, too, before he went out.
So we have his letter saying that it is authentic.
He doesn't understand Graham's title page.
No one does.
Well, there are two theories.
One is that Poe gave it to Graham, nobody ever bought it, and he switched to Zebra.
Or he gave it to Zebra, nobody ever bought it, and then he switched to Graham.
Or Graham or Zebra
Just took it upon themselves to put a title page on.
Is this stuff that you've researched yourself?
Yes, I've done a lot of research on it.
I haven't solved it.
Here's my Raven and Rappers, the companion copy that went in the soil with the last big sale in New York, which sold somewhere near $50,000, I think.
But this is the Raven and other poems in the Rappers.
See, the whole suggestion that the paperback is an invention of after World War II, isn't it?
It's a wonder they exist at all.
In that state, which is extraordinary, 150 years old.
There's nothing terribly unusual.
This is just a tale of the grotesque in arabesque, which is a nice copy.
This was from the Strader collection.
Stralem.
S-T-R-A-L-E-M.
That's Donald S.
Yes, this is just a... Is that booklet leather, by the way?
Looks like it.
Yeah.
I mean yours.
Oh, mine?
No, mine is paper.
It looks like leather, doesn't it?
This is some management material.
Here's the two little poems that were in... Let's see... Two of the other was in Burton's magazine.
Oh, here's what it says.
Oh, this is in the hands of Chicago College.
That's a whole manuscript.
These columns are in Al-A-Rap, I think.
Oh, where?
In Al-A-Rap, I want to look at that.
Another time, yeah.
I saw the young night bright all day, when a burning blush came, or the
And then the other one on the right is To the River.
Okay, can we just put the titles again?
This is in an album with the numeral 32, two with a line.
I saw the All Night Bridal Days, the first line of that one.
And this is To the River.
Fair River, exclamation, and Thy Bright Clear Flow.
That's pretty nice.
I guess the serious collector inevitably has to get into manuscripts.
Yeah, I think you do.
Well, you know, it's nice to have something personal.
This is a Poe letter.
Very fragile.
This is to Dr. Snodgrass or somebody like that.
But it's really falling apart, as you can see.
You know, I'm impressed that you're not afraid to take these things out and handle them.
Well, I don't take them out.
Well, I must tell you, because they are so fragile.
And then...
You might want me to say this too, but you do keep the stuff in the vault.
I do, yes.
I keep most of the rare stuff in the vault and get it out when needed.
This is for Annie, which I think is one of his greatest poems.
This handwriting was beautiful, wasn't it?
Now, this has eight stanzas.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
The actual poem has, I think, 16.
But the history of this particular copy is known.
Poe sent this poem to the publisher.
And somewhere along the line, half of it was lost.
And all the books on Poe acknowledge that there's only one complete copy.
which I think is in the Philadelphia Free Library.
We're all 18, but this is the best you can do now.
It's all with left.
That's what it represents.
And then this was the manuscript I bought that might have been considered a pony.
And what we did, it has little holes here, you see, where a thread went through to bind it.
And this little crease here, which was also...
And all the copies in the bird collection and other collections that have this all have that same crease and those same holes in the same place.
That's a New York problem.
Yeah, yeah.
This is page 11.
I think, I'm not sure how many pages there were, but it is also known in all the reference books, see, that Pope broke this up and gave pages away to different people.
So that's why, why it's, you know, there's no complete copy.
When I sat with Bill Scheide,
in Princeton, and he took out his Gutenberg Bible.
We did a very similar thing.
He said, I feel where the hole is.
I said, you see that hole?
That's really exactly the thing.
Doing the same kind of a thing that you're doing right there, really knowing not only the content of the collection, but every aspect of it.
Yeah, you have to do a little research on it.
All right, we move to the Brontage.
Here's Weather Heights in three volumes, Agnes Gray being the third.
Now, this is the copy.
Each one of these little pieces of paper marks something that Charlotte put in.
Something that Charlotte put in.
Are those her pieces of paper?
No.
Oh, no, I'm sorry.
They're her notation, but they're not her pieces of paper.
But most of them are very small, like here.
She changed to T.O.
to T.W.O., because it should be T.W.O.
And she made these changes
I believe.
She goes, she spells it differently.
She made the changes in preparation for the second edition, which she edited.
And these are the changes that were questioned.
And then I have since sent copies of the changes to the Rothery Museum.
And they had several people over there examine them.
And they wrote back and they said, in their mind, there's absolutely no question that it's Charlotte's handwriting.
This may be one of the letters now.
So any Bronte editor would be very interested in this, if you're bringing out a... Yes, yes.
I get inquiries from people to come see.
Oh, he said, I took up the question of the authorship and the annotations in your copy.
Both Margaret Smith and Professor Kathleen Tilson, I've had a reply from both of these, pleased to know that they both confirm that they think the handwriting is definitely that of Charlotte Bronte's.
It just annoys me that somebody challenges all these things and you have to kind of solve it.
But if you solve it and write it.
They don't know.
No, that's part of it, though.
That's kind of fun.
This is a very rare thing.
This is their first book of poems.
There are two editions to this, as you may know.
We have both.
I have to remember this.
This was a well-known death recording.
Duff Gordon, is that my name?
Yes, I think that's who that is.
Anyway, this is, has a, how do you say that, and Jones, publisher, which is the rare one.
And then they also, nobody bought this, I guess, and they changed publication.
This is pretty good.
150, close to 150 years old.
This is a, this is a,
couple of interesting items.
Does Barbara still collect, by the way?
A little bit.
She hasn't got the means to do that.
I brought her, she's been writing some travel articles, which have been published.
There's a very nice one on Willa Cather's, Nebraska.
And I brought it down to show you.
This we bought at the Houghton sale in London, Arthur Houghton.
Charlotte Bronte, autographed manuscript of two of her poems.
I think she was
13 or 14 years old when she wrote this.
As you know, they wrote in the miniature hand.
And this is Scarlet Bronte's miniature hand.
And several experts have been here to examine this because in publishing these early poems,
People couldn't read them right, or they, quote, improved upon them.
I don't know whether this is any good or not.
And here, in the back, someone has printed it, so at least you can sort of tell what... How could they write this for?
I know, they were murderers.
They had to use them, I think.
Well, that was pretty authentic today.
I'm sure that that's authentic.
Thank you.
And then...
This is Emily's diary.
And Anne's.
A couple of pages of Anne and a couple of Emily's.
This is... I expected it to be larger than that.
This is Clement Short.
We're talking about maybe four inches by six inches here.
This is... She says, my birthday... Well, I have a translation for her right there.
And then she did a miniature... She did a drawing of herself and her dog, Keeper.
Beautiful.
And then, uh, that's Emily Bronte.
And I just played one where I was going to play this keeper.
And then Thursday, this is Anne Bronte, Thursday, July 31st, 1845.
Yesterday was Emily's birthday.
So this is, uh, now the Bronte Museum, I'm not sure that this Anne's diary pages have ever been published.
I have here.
They have a facsimile of the picture in Emily's room, probably.
Now, what are your dog's names again?
Annie.
And Emily.
Emily.
I thought maybe Keeper, no.
That would have been too.
Oh, here's the production of your page.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
And which book is this?
This is the, uh, the broad page.
The book is the Lives, Friendships, Correspondence.
Yeah, this is, uh, who's... So you must get, you must get quite a few requests from scholars to come and do, and, and do you generally comply with their requests?
Yes, I generally do.
But this, this, uh, this is, uh, tells what you write.
It's a showy, breezy, cool.
I'm 27 years old today.
This morning Ann and I opened up the paper we wrote four years ago.
It's on my 23rd birthday.
This paper we intended, if all be well, to open on my 30th, three years hence, and so forth and so forth.
And she goes on to tell about her brother and the travels and other things.
We're all in decent health, only that Papa hasn't been playing it in his eyes and so forth.
By mistake, I find we've opened the paper on the 31st instead of the 30th.
You see, I'm amazed that they allowed this to leave England.
Well, they didn't know where it was.
Well, really, because they have... Well, probably, as I said, when I saw the reproduction in Emily Bronte's bedroom at Howard, I knew where this was.
And I didn't know if this was authentic.
So I said to the lady in charge of the museum, do you have the original of that?
And she said, no, we don't know where it is.
And I said, uh-huh.
I know where I am.
So these are Charlotte Bronte letters.
One of them is, in my opinion, one of the greatest letters she ever wrote, which is this one coming up.
Unfortunately, this one, that is missing.
And the reason it's missing is that someone cut her signature out of that.
Probably her father.
Probably her father who did that.
Who sold her autograph.
This is the letter where she refuses marriage.
During his lifetime.
She has proposed marriage and goes on to say that the reason she's going to turn down these things is that she is not the woman in place she is.
That's wonderful.
Mr. Henry Newsy.
N-U-S-S-E-Y.
The Reverend Henry Newsy.
And he had proposed marriage to her.
It goes on to say, you are aware that I have many reasons to feel grateful to your family, that I have peculiar reasons for affection towards one, at least, of your sisters, and also that I highly esteem yourself.
Do not, therefore, accuse me of wrong motives when I say that my answer to your proposal must be a decided negative.
Decided negative?
Isn't that wonderful?
Right, it's all.
And then she goes on to say that she's not the...
She's not the woman he thinks she is, and then she kind of tells what her own beliefs are.
She says, farewell.
I shall always be glad to hear from you as a friend.
I think the bill about she would never, she wouldn't dishonor a fine man by accepting his proposal to avoid the stigma of being a spitz check.
This is, by the way, page 172-73.
I might just... I can check if you get this verbatim at Harvard.
Yeah, this is the... And here's the editor.
The Shakespeare Head Press.
Contest, volume one.
She says, as for me, you do not know me.
I am not the serious, grave, cool-headed individual you suppose.
You would think me romantic and eccentric.
You would say I was satirical and severe.
And then she goes on, however, I scorn deceit, and I will never, for the sake of obtaining the distinction of matrimony and escaping the stigma of an old maid, take a worthy man whom I am conscious, I cannot render half it.
And so forth.
It's a terrific letter.
Isn't it?
And we bought that.
at a growlier sale, didn't we, or something, in New York?
Yes, yes.
Moving on.
Just as a little curiosity, because we don't really talk about that much, these are some love letters that Dylan Thomas wrote.
There are six love letters that Dylan Thomas wrote to a woman in all the biographies referred to her as Sarah, but was not her real name.
Dylan, of course, addresses it to the real person.
He wasn't trying to hide it.
And these are letters, she was, her name was Pearl.
And these letters were.
That's why they call us Sarah.
And we bought it from Hamill and Barclay.
And they had had it, they had a way of keeping things down in the safe.
And people didn't even know they had it.
And they said this was
It was the first time that they'd been offered for sale.
But the woman had agreed to sell them and then sent the check back.
I think she's still living.
I think she has a family.
And said she changed her mind and she really didn't want to sell the letters.
All the correspondence is there.
So they wrote back and convinced her that they should be made available.
See, the copyright is not owned by the woman.
Made available.
The person who writes the letter owns it.
She really couldn't stop publication of those.
No.
of those letters, but she could, you know, cause some more of them.
Well, that's the stuff I brought in today.
That's wonderful.
These are all different things.
Here's a presentation copy of David Copperfield, another one.
This, I think, is from, the only interesting thing about this, other than its presentation, is it is from the Jerome Kern Library.
who was a very prominent player.
You see, lots of dust, but we don't worry about that because in general... I mean, nobody touches the books but Bill.
And occasionally he does go through and dusts them when he handles them.
But somebody, one of the...
People, the authorities on books, said that dust is the best preserving... This volume I show... When you have people in the house, is it understood that nobody uses the books except Carol?
Yeah.
This is interesting, only because to show you what great bindings some of these things are.
These are original drawings by Thalesville.
This was Kenyon's, mine, and Carlisle.
Just look at these.
These are the plates and the original drawings for the plates.
You see, they're often reversed, because the etcher worked backwards.
So the figure is on the other side, you see, from the original drawing and then the image.
Sometimes they're not.
Sometimes they're not reversed.
In fact, this is not reversed.
But can you imagine the cost of putting this together?
What's the color added?
Well, they were hand-colored by Felton.
But were they hand-colored the original?
Or the, uh... Okay, pale-thrope... ...illustration.
Is it the color on the original or on the illustration?
On the original.
The original drawings are something, I mean, there aren't any original Winslow Homer woodblocks.
No.
It's just, you know, if you have the Harpers, you have them, you know?
The, uh, a couple of things you have, Dr. H.D.
I think it's interesting.
This is the least signed by Dickens for you.
Showing me, uh, Uncle Bear Finn.
Oh, yeah, it's over there.
Uh, this is interesting because it's, uh, it's an autograph letter, uh, from George Crookshank to Dickens.
Crookshank, of course, is a great illustrator.
And the interesting thing is, is he both signed it.
Oh.
So, dude, Dickens, you might, well, you know, I think I have a picture.
Might I have a picture, by the way?
Is that all right?
No, by all means.
He says, I know you will oblige me with your autograph for a young lady, yours truly, George Crookshank.
And then he says, my dear George, with great pleasure, partly for your sake and partly for the sake of a young lady, unknown, faithfully yours, Dickens.
We won't take out too much more of you, sir.
All right, well, we'll, no, we'll not go.
Obviously.
Would you guys like a piece of cake and a cup of coffee or something like that?
This is just the... Lou Feldman, by the way, is a character for me.
He's kind of a false stat.
I'm going to take it out of the glaze thing so it might reproduce that.
She's usually off, you know, and she never bothers any.
Okay.
Want a shot of Tamalei?
You don't mind.
No?
I didn't even ask you anything about your special life of birth here.
Well, I'm not sure I can do that.
I can send you an official bio.
You want one?
Yeah, that would be super.
I don't want to take up this as bad.
Well, that would be easier.
This is a relatable time here.
You're a young fellow from Dayton, Ohio.
Yes.
Did you ever... I mean, this is quite a collection, which one can hear about a major... No, that's true.
It is a major collection.
What happens to this collection, by the way?
Well, some of it will go to our children.
uh some of it we will probably have to option because the estate uh taxes on some of it would be so great that the kids won't be able to oh yeah
Boy, they've taken all the guesswork out of photography.
I bought my first couple of night plots and I was under service 20 years ago overseas.
I never thought I'd have to, but boy, they make it.
Yeah, what kind is that?
Yeah, I've got, you know, I have a couple of Lycats and I don't use them.
There's just so much trouble compared to
The modern, you know.
Oh, you want me out on here?
Well, she may pose that on you.
She doesn't like to do that.
All right.
You know, there's a play on Broadway called I Hate Hamlet.
I wanted to see it as a matter of fact.
Have you seen it?
No, but it's my life story.
Come on.
Oops, that misfire, that misfire.
I'm trying to get that.
Well, I'm kidding about that.
When I lived in Hepburn's house, as I told you...
I would go into this, and I was a bit actor in town, trying to get a job as an actor.
I used to go into the library and I'd say, John, help me, help me.
So now I've finally written a play about the same situation.
All right, coming over here.
These are, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops
that's inscribed to Edith Berkley and Lewis Carroll.
This is Mark Twain.
This is Barbara's collection.
And as you can see, it has Jumping Frog and all the buildings.
Let's see if I can find which house is all there.
I'll tell you the picture I want to get it open too.
Oh, okay.
It wouldn't be in here, but here's Kenyon's... I have a Huckleberry thing, but not quite like that.
That's pretty wonderful.
How about a child's sayer in the blue material clock?
Well, I know the, I know the, um, the jumping frogs.
Yeah.
Oh, here's the, here's the bright color.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Yeah, I got to take a picture of that.
That's really the high spot that I want.
I don't know.
That's a little bit.
Yeah, maybe.
It's going to bounce.
Yeah, that's great.
Oh, that's terrific.
Oh yeah, great.
You know Sandy Berger up in Carmel?
Salford Berger, he has this great William Morris collection.
You know Mason?
Oh yeah, the doctor, yeah.
I'm not trying to do all the collectives.
I'm really interested.
I think the book's going to be good because I'm not trying to make it... Come over here.
I have some interesting things over here.
This was Poe's mother's copy.
Poe's mother was an actress, as you may know.
And somewhere, line in line, when I was buying Poe, I was discovered these are all plays that Poe's mother was in.
Really?
And this... Let's see where this is on.
And they had pictures of Ed and Bill
Part of Phoebe was taken by Pauline Miller.
Oh, here it is.
Where's Phoebe?
This must be a very scarce item.
Phoebe.
This was Mrs. Poe.
Poe's mother.
Miss Arnold.
That would be Phoebe.
Then these other plays also have them.
I don't know.
I don't know which they are.
But generally speaking, they list which part Mrs. Poe was playing.
You mentioned that you were a magic collector?
Yes.
Oh, here's Poe's.
Oh, it's his poem.
Yeah.
So they all saved public.
You must have had some interest in that Mulholland collection.
I know a lot about the Mulholland collection.
I've seen the collection.
I know what's happening to it.
I know what's not happening to it.
What's happening?
Well, the government I know the RTC has it, and they've put a 1.2 million number on it, I guess.
Well, I know a guy that did more than that, and they haven't sold it to him, because once they got that bid,
uh they decided maybe they had underpriced it now they're waiting to see what else happened i can tell you i'm not supposed to tell you this book is how i met john fleming first time i saw this is a picture of dorian gray and it's inscribed by oscar wilde um and it's uh there's oscar wilde when i looked at it in john's shelf it had a price in it very i thought
fair and modest price.
So I said, I'll buy it.
And John laughed and said, that's not today's price bill.
That happened to be left in when that book sold many years ago.
I said, oh, I'm disappointed about that.
He said, look, take it for that price.
He said, you know, you're a new customer.
That's a class guy, isn't it?
He said, you're a new customer.
You picked out a book.
You'd like to have it.
We made a deal.
So I didn't pay very much.
Did you ever deal with Margie Cohn or Chris?
She's more modern.
No, she was more modern.
More modern.
I knew her.
This is, I think, a terrific copy of The Origin of the Species.
Beautiful copy, as you can see.
Very good condition.
Little Falcon, look at that.
But still, bright.
Very bright.
You said that...